{admission date:   

date of birth:         sex:  m

service:  cardiology

chief complaint:  chest pain.

history of present illness:  mr.   is a 65-year-old
diabetic male who was referred for cardiac catheterization
following a positive stress test.

he had an episode of chest tightness while at work sitting at
his desk approximately one month ago.  it lasted for about 10
minutes and resolved after he took aspirin and tums.  he has
not had any further chest pain but has had some left hand
tingling each night while lying in bed.  he also has had some
shortness of breath after climbing two flights of stairs.

he went to go see his local cardiologist and was referred for
a stress test.  this test had to be stopped prematurely due
to fatigue and marked dyspnea in addition to chest pain.  he
did become hypertensive during his stress test and had
electrocardiogram changes that were suggestive, but not
diagnostic, in the lateral leads and was hence referred for
cardiac catheterization.

he denies any claudication, orthopnea, edema, paroxysmal
nocturnal dyspnea, or lightheadedness.

past medical history:
1.  hypertension.
2.  insulin-requiring adult-onset diabetes mellitus.
3.  arthritis.

past surgical history:  past surgical history was negative.

allergies:  he is allergic to celebrex.

medications on admission:
1.  aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.
2.  glucophage 850 mg p.o. b.i.d.
3.  glyburide 2.5 mg p.o. q.d.
4.  nph 20 to 25 units subcutaneous q.h.s.
5.  zestril 10 mg p.o. q.d.

pertinent laboratory data on presentation:  admission
laboratories revealed his white blood cell count was 8.4,
hematocrit was 31.6, platelets were 236.  blood urea nitrogen
and creatinine were 19 and 1.  potassium was 4.7.

physical examination on presentation:  on physical
examination his heart rate was 60, his blood pressure
was 160/70.  his neck was without bruits.  his heart had a
regular rate and rhythm without murmurs.  the lungs were
clear to auscultation bilaterally.  the abdomen was obese
with no palpable masses.  his extremities demonstrated no
varicosities and had normal pulses.

hospital course:   the patient was admitted for an inpatient
cardiac catheterization on  .  this was
significant for multiple vessel disease including a long
proximal severe narrowing of the left anterior descending
artery and a long severe stenosis of the diagonal.  in
addition, he had a 60% lesion in his right coronary artery
and another 60% lesion in his posterior descending artery.

due to the distribution of the patient's disease, it was felt
that he was a candidate for cardiac surgery.  six hours
following his catheterization, a heparin drip was started.
in addition, cardiac surgery was consulted.

the following day, he was taken to the operating room.
there, he had coronary artery bypass graft times three.  his
grafts were left internal mammary artery to left anterior
descending artery, saphenous vein graft to left anterior
descending artery first diagonal (?), and saphenous vein
graft to distal right coronary artery.

the patient's procedure itself was unremarkable.
postoperatively, he was taken intubated to the cardiac
surgery intensive care unit.  he was atrially paced with
neo-synephrine and propofol drips.  that evening, he was kept
on a ventilator with his neo-synephrine running at a lower
rate.  later that day, he was extubated without incident and
was subsequently weaned off his neo-synephrine.

by the second postoperative day, his chest tube was
discontinued, and he was transferred to the floor.

on the floor, the patient had an unremarkable
hospitalization.  all of his diabetes medications were
restarted.  his foley catheter was discontinued, and his
pacing wires were removed.  the patient was a bit slow to
progress with his ambulation and required more diuresis than
is typical.

by the fifth postoperative day, he was finally weaned off of
his oxygen and was ambulating adequately in the hallway.
however, he had a rise in his white blood cell count from
9000 to 14,000.  for this reason, he had a urinalysis that
was sent that was negative for signs of infection.  by the
following day, his white blood cell count had normalized
to 10,000.  for this reason, we believed that he was safe to
be discharged home.

finally, he had some very mild hyperkalemia with a potassium
of approximately of 5 to 5.2 despite his lasix therapy.  his
potassium repletion was held for two days, and the decision
was made to continue to replete him as an outpatient but at a
lower dose.  he will have visiting nurse assistance to draw
potassium in two days and telephone the results to his
primary care physician,  .  his telephone number is
 .

discharge status:  the patient was discharged to home.

medications on discharge:
1.  glyburide 2.5 mg p.o. q.d.
2.  enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.
3.  glucophage 850 mg p.o. b.i.d.
4.  nph 20 units subcutaneous q.h.s.
5.  lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d.
6.  lasix 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. (times seven days).
7.  potassium chloride 20 meq p.o. q.d. (times seven days).
8.  colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
9.  percocet 5/325 one to two tablets p.o. q.4-6h. p.r.n.

discharge followup:   the patient was to follow up with
dr.   in approximately two weeks.  in addition, he was to
follow up with dr.   in six weeks.

discharge diagnoses:
1.  coronary artery disease; now status post coronary artery
bypass graft times three.
2.  adult-onset diabetes mellitus, insulin-requiring and
controlled.
3.  hypertension.





                           

dictated by: 

medquist36

d:     12:06
t:     06:32
job#:   
}